:Helping Hacker Culture Grow:
*****************************

   If you enjoyed the Jargon File, please help the culture that created
it grow and flourish.  Here are several ways you can help:

   * If you are a writer or journalist, don't say or write {hacker}
when you mean {cracker}.  If you work with writers or journalists,
educate them on this issue and push them to do the right thing. If you
catch a newspaper or magazine abusing the work `hacker', write them and
straigten them out (this appendix includes a model letter).

   * If you're a techie or computer hobbyist, get involved with one of
the free Unixes.  Toss out that lame Microsoft OS, or confine it to one
disk partition and put Linux or FreeBSD or NetBSD on the other one.
And the next time your friend or boss is thinking about some
proprietary software `solution' that costs more than it's worth, be
ready to blow the competition away with open-source software running
over a Unix.

   * Contribute to organizations like the Free Software Foundation that
promote the production of high-quality free and open-source software.
You can reach the Free Software Foundation at gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu, by
phone at +1-617-542-5942, or by snail-mail at 59 Temple Place, Suite
330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA.

   * Support the League for Programming Freedom, which opposes
over-broad software patents that constantly threaten to blow up in
hackers' faces, preventing them from developing innovative software for
tomorrow's needs.  You can reach the League for Programming Freedom at
lpf@uunet.uu.net. by phone at +1 617 621 7084, or by snail-mail at 1
Kendall Square #143, P.O.Box 9171, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 USA.

   * Join the continuing fight against Internet censorship, visit the
Center for Democracy and Technology Home Page at `http://www.cdt.org'.

   * If you do nothing else, please help fight government attempts to
seize political control of Internet content and restrict strong
cryptography.  As TNHD III went to press, the so-called `Communications
Decency Act' had just been declared "unconstitutional on its face" by a
Federal court, but the government is expected to appeal.  If it's still
law when you read this, please join the effort by the Citizens'
Internet Empowerment Coalition lawsuit to have the CDA quashed or
repealed.  Surf to the Center for Democracy and technology's home page
at `http://www.cdt.org' to see what you can do to help fight censorship
of the net.

   Here's the text of a letter RMS wrote to the Wall Street Journal to
complain about their policy of using "hacker" only in a pejorative
sense.  We hear that most major newspapers have the same policy.  If
you'd like to help change this situation, send your favorite newspaper
the same letter - or, better yet, write your own letter.

     Dear Editor:

     This letter is not meant for publication, although you can publish
     it if you wish.  It is meant specifically for you, the editor, not
     the public.

     I am a hacker.  That is to say, I enjoy playing with computers --
     working with, learning about, and writing clever computer
     programs.  I am not a cracker; I don't make a practice of breaking
     computer security.

     There's nothing shameful about the hacking I do.  But when I tell
     people I am a hacker, people think I'm admitting something naughty
     -- because newspapers such as yours misuse the word "hacker",
     giving the impression that it means "security breaker" and nothing
     else.  You are giving hackers a bad name.

     The saddest thing is that this problem is perpetuated deliberately.
     Your reporters know the difference between "hacker" and "security
     breaker".  They know how to make the distinction, but you don't let
     them!  You insist on using "hacker" pejoratively.  When reporters
     try to use another word, you change it.  When reporters try to
     explain the other meanings, you cut it.

     Of course, you have a reason.  You say that readers have become
     used to your insulting usage of "hacker", so that you cannot
     change it now.  Well, you can't undo past mistakes today; but that
     is no excuse to repeat them tomorrow.

     If I were what you call a "hacker", at this point I would threaten
     to crack your computer and crash it.  But I am a hacker, not a
     cracker.  I don't do that kind of thing!  I have enough computers
     to play with at home and at work; I don't need yours.  Besides,
     it's not my way to respond to insults with violence.  My response
     is this letter.

     You owe hackers an apology; but more than that, you owe us ordinary
     respect.

     			Sincerely, etc.

