:Other Lexicon Conventions:
===========================

   Entries are sorted in case-blind ASCII collation order (rather than
the letter-by-letter order ignoring interword spacing common in
mainstream dictionaries), except that all entries beginning with
nonalphabetic characters are sorted after Z.  The case-blindness is a
feature, not a bug.

   The beginning of each entry is marked by a colon (`:') at the left
margin.  This convention helps out tools like hypertext browsers that
benefit from knowing where entry boundaries are, but aren't as
context-sensitive as humans.

   In pure ASCII renderings of the Jargon File, you will see {} used to
bracket words which themselves have entries in the File.  This isn't
done all the time for every such word, but it is done everywhere that a
reminder seems useful that the term has a jargon meaning and one might
wish to refer to its entry.

   In this all-ASCII version, headwords for topic entries are
distinguished from those for ordinary entries by being followed by "::"
rather than ":"; similarly, references are surrounded by "{{" and "}}"
rather than "{" and "}".

   Defining instances of terms and phrases appear in `slanted type'.  A
defining instance is one which occurs near to or as part of an
explanation of it.

   Prefixed ** is used as linguists do; to mark examples of incorrect
usage.

   We follow the `logical' quoting convention described in the Writing
Style section above.  In addition, we reserve double quotes for actual
excerpts of text or (sometimes invented) speech.  Scare quotes (which
mark a word being used in a nonstandard way), and philosopher's quotes
(which turn an utterance into the string of letters or words that name
it) are both rendered with single quotes.

   References such as `malloc(3)' and `patch(1)' are to Unix facilities
(some of which, such as `patch(1)', are actually freeware distributed
over Usenet).  The Unix manuals use `foo(n)' to refer to item foo in
section (n) of the manual, where n=1 is utilities, n=2 is system calls,
n=3 is C library routines, n=6 is games, and n=8 (where present) is
system administration utilities.  Sections 4, 5, and 7 of the manuals
have changed roles frequently and in any case are not referred to in
any of the entries.

   Various abbreviations used frequently in the lexicon are summarized
here:

abbrev.
     abbreviation

adj.
     adjective

adv.
     adverb

alt.
     alternate

cav.
     caveat

conj.
     conjunction

esp.
     especially

excl.
     exclamation

imp.
     imperative

interj.
     interjection

n.
     noun

obs.
     obsolete

pl.
     plural

poss.
     possibly

pref.
     prefix

prob.
     probably

prov.
     proverbial

quant.
     quantifier

suff.
     suffix

syn.
     synonym (or synonymous with)

v.
     verb (may be transitive or intransitive)

var.
     variant

vi.
     intransitive verb

vt.
     transitive verb

   Where alternate spellings or pronunciations are given, alt.
separates two possibilities with nearly equal distribution, while var.
prefixes one that is markedly less common than the primary.

   Where a term can be attributed to a particular subculture or is known
to have originated there, we have tried to so indicate.  Here is a list
of abbreviations used in etymologies:

Amateur Packet Radio
     A technical culture of ham-radio sites using AX.25 and TCP/IP for
     wide-area networking and BBS systems.

Berkeley
     University of California at Berkeley

BBN
     Bolt, Beranek & Newman

Cambridge
     the university in England (_not_ the city in Massachusetts where
     MIT happens to be located!)

CMU
     Carnegie-Mellon University

Commodore
     Commodore Business Machines

DEC
     The Digital Equipment Corporation (now Compaq).

Fairchild
     The Fairchild Instruments Palo Alto development group

FidoNet
     See the {FidoNet} entry

IBM
     International Business Machines

MIT
     Massachusetts Institute of Technology; esp. the legendary MIT AI
     Lab culture of roughly 1971 to 1983 and its feeder groups,
     including the Tech Model Railroad Club

NRL
     Naval Research Laboratories

NYU
     New York University

OED
     The Oxford English Dictionary

Purdue
     Purdue University

SAIL
     Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (at Stanford
     University)

SI
     From Syste`me International, the name for the standard conventions
     of metric nomenclature used in the sciences

Stanford
     Stanford University

Sun
     Sun Microsystems

TMRC
     Some MITisms go back as far as the Tech Model Railroad Club (TMRC)
     at MIT c. 1960.  Material marked TMRC is from "An Abridged
     Dictionary of the TMRC Language", originally compiled by Pete
     Samson in 1959

UCLA
     University of California at Los Angeles

UK
     the United Kingdom (England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland)

Usenet
     See the {Usenet} entry

WPI
     Worcester Polytechnic Institute, site of a very active community of
     PDP-10 hackers during the 1970s

WWW
     The World-Wide-Web.

XEROX PARC
     XEROX's Palo Alto Research Center, site of much pioneering
     research in user interface design and networking

Yale
     Yale University

   Some other etymology abbreviations such as {Unix} and {PDP-10} refer
to technical cultures surrounding specific operating systems,
processors, or other environments.  The fact that a term is labelled
with any one of these abbreviations does not necessarily mean its use
is confined to that culture.  In particular, many terms labelled `MIT'
and `Stanford' are in quite general use.  We have tried to give some
indication of the distribution of speakers in the usage notes; however,
a number of factors mentioned in the introduction conspire to make
these indications less definite than might be desirable.

   A few new definitions attached to entries are marked [proposed].
These are usually generalizations suggested by editors or Usenet
respondents in the process of commenting on previous definitions of
those entries.  These are _not_ represented as established jargon.

